March 19-2023:
IDE- Integrated Development Environment
Integer/ Floor Division can be done by using // (thig gives us only integer or whole number)
Normal division can be done by using / ( this gives us float values)
We can get the remainder by using %
Exponent or power is indictaed by **
Strings if we define directly, it should be defined with in quotes.
We can print both single and double quotes in a single go by ignoring the special meaning.
We can print RAWSTRING, which means no special characters will work, by using a 'r' before the string while printing.
Variable is a container which holds a value.
_ represents the output of previous operation.
For ignoring the single quote, we must use \, raw value r is not working here.
Lists are mutable.
We can have lists of lists
Extend/ Insert/ Append are different types of functions we can use with lists.
List can be used for any type of data.
Tuple is similar to List, but its immutable.
Tuple will be used along with ().
When the requirement is not to change the values in a particular list, in such case Tuple is useful.
Tuples are fast while using iterations so that it improves the performance.
Multiple types of data can be allowed in a single Tuple.
Tuple does not support item assignment.
Set is represented by {}
Set will not allow duplicates, also if prints the order by using row hash. Hence data can be printed according to hash.
Indexing is not supported in Sets as it does not follow order to print or store the values.
Dictionary will be used with {}
Here, we have to use the key and value pair.
We have to use the key to fetch the value.
Variables are case sensitive.
Camel case: Each word except the first , starts with a capital letter: myVariableName='anu'
Pascal case: Each word starts with a capital letter: MyVariableName='anu'
Snake case: Each word is separated by an underscore character: my_variable_name.
If you have a collection of values in a list, tuple etc. Python allows you to extract the values into variables. This is called unpacking.
For strings, + is used as a concatination operator 
For numbers, + is used as a mathematical operator.
Variables that are created outside of a function are known as global variables.
Global variables can be used by everyone, both inside of functions and outside.
If you use the glPython also has many built-in functions that return a boolean value, like the isinstance() function, which can be used to determine if an object is of a certain data type.
obal keyword, the variable belongs to the global scope
Float can also be scientific numbers with an "e" to indicate the power of 10.
Python does not have a random() function to make a random number, but Python has a built-in module called random that can be used to make random numbers
You can assign a multiline string to a variable by using three quotes(three single o three double quotes)
To check if a certain phrase or character is present in a string, we can use the keyword 'in'/ not in. It returns the values- True or False.
These can be used under a if condition also.
The strip() method removes any whitespace from the beginning or the end.
The replace() method replaces a string with another string.
The split() method splits the string into substrings if it finds instances of the separator.
we can combine strings and numbers by using the format() method
The format() method takes unlimited number of arguments, and are placed into the respective placeholders.
Under Bool, Almost any value is evaluated to True if it has some sort of content.
Any string is True, except empty strings.
Any number is True, except 0.
Any list, tuple, set, and dictionary are True, except empty ones.
In fact, there are not many values that evaluate to False, except empty values, such as (), [], {}, "", the number 0, and the value None. And of course the value False evaluates to False.
Python also has many built-in functions that return a boolean value, like the isinstance() function, which can be used to determine if an object is of a certain data type.
There is a difference between Identical and assignment operators. x is not y is different from x!=y. First one matches the variable also and second one matches the value it holds.
Python identity operators are 'is, is not' and membership operators are 'in, not in'
List items are ordered, changeable, idexed, and allow duplicate values.
From Python's perspective, lists are defined as objects with the data type 'list'
It is also possible to use the list() constructor when creating a new list.
List is a collection which is ordered and changeable. Allows duplicate members.
Tuple is a collection which is ordered and unchangeable. Allows duplicate members.
Set is a collection which is unordered, unchangeable*, and unindexed. No duplicate members.
Dictionary is a collection which is ordered** and changeable. No duplicate members.
